So the question here is what do you need
to know to really get started with Vue?
And so earlier we talked about some
prerequisites for the workshop but
this is where I kinda wanna start
us as far as ground zero goes.
As long as you have familiarity with HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript,
and you have familiarity with the code
editor, that is all you need.
And that might come as a surprise to
people because a lot of times when we
think about frameworks, we are thinking
about it from a build tool perspective.
But we're gonna go ahead and
show you how this approach works and
why it's actually a viable approach when
it comes to a lot of organizations looking
to either progressively migrate
their into a framework.
So here's your Morpheus mean, from Matrix.
What if I told you no
build tools were needed?
And so again, some of you will be
understandably skeptical, but we're going
to actually experience this live ourselves
and go through what this is like.
So with that said, has everyone had a
chance to basically fork the repo sort of
clone it down to make sure they
have that environment ready to go?
Okay, great.
So the first thing we're gonna do,
we talked for
a little bit now let's dive right
into some code and check this out.
So, inside of here, you'll notice that
there's very little going on in here.
There's no package dot JSON,
there's no dependency.
So Ron is basically a readme file here and
we have a couple of HTML files for
you to basically work with.
So what I'm gonna do is
I'm gonna go ahead and
open up my playground HTML file
inside of the browser over here.
So to make sure everything's working,
I'm just gonna go ahead and
do and each one with hello front end
masters save refresh there we go,
okay dev environment setup no
build tools required great.
Now, when we think about
building your first Vue app,
I mentioned before because
no build tools are required,
what you can do is you can actually
just drop Vue onto a page.
And so the way we're gonna do
that is we're gonna go ahead and
go on to the Vuejs.orgdocs.
And if we go into the guide,
I believe it's under Quick Start.
We'll see.
Here we go.
There's a section here that
says using view from the CDN.
And all we're gonna do is we're
gonna copy this line right here and
drop it into our HTML file.
It's all we're gonna do here is boom,
paste that in.
And so to verify that this worked, that's
something actually happened we're actually
gonna go ahead and
open up our browser console.
And you'll notice here that one,
it's already alerting us that we're
running a development build of Vue.
So in other words, if we're gonna
deploy this, they're gonna need to use
a production deployment, because
the size is gonna be a bit larger but
this is fine cuz we're learning right now.
So the way you can check the also that
this is working is if you type view it'll
autocomplete and you'll notice
it'll basically bring up the view
object that's ready for
you to do stuff with it.
And so what I'm gonna do right
now is I'm gonna go ahead and
just show you basically
how that kind of works.
So what I'm gonna do here
is we're gonna go ahead and
we're gonna create a div and just like
you typically would expect I'm gonna
call it the div app that's
all we're gonna do.
And then we're gonna say my app in here,
save it.
And we refresh.
There we go, my app is showing up here.
And now let's go to
actually attach our app.
And how do we do that?
So what we're gonna do now is we're gonna
open up the script block at the bottom.
And we're actually going to go ahead and
bring in a function from
view called create app.
So I'm gonna create a constant and
I'm gonna destructure it from Vue.
So it's going to look like this.
Now this is an alternative syntax
basically just calling create
app like this,
calling the function directly.
But there'll be an advantage of this
from like a syntax perspective so
that's why we're destructuring
the function out.
And all we're gonna do is we're gonna go
ahead and say const app equals create app.
And so what that'll do is it'll
create a variable called App, and
then it'll go ahead and create setup.
And all we're gonna do now is we're
gonna mount because what we got to do,
we got to tell view where it is
we wanna actually put the app.
So that is where this
mount keyword comes in.
And we're gonna mount it to the ID
of app which is using the CSS
selector here that are mounted
directly into this part.
So in three lines of code,
we have dropped the view or I guess four,
include the CDN, we've loaded the onto
the page and we basically created the app.
So if we refresh it, we'll notice
nothing's really happening, and
that's totally fine because we
haven't had view display anything yet.
And so when it comes to frameworks, one of
the things that people love about working
with frameworks is that it really helps
attract your data across different states.
So that's called reactive data.
So the fact that when something changes,
it'll go ahead and
make sure that your HTML
page is updated as expected.
So the way we're gonna do this is inside
of our trade app, we're gonna pass it
an object, and this object and allow
us to configure things about our app.
So that's it, so
think of it as a configuration object.
And we're gonna do is we're
gonna pass it a data option, and
we're gonna do is this is gonna be
a function, that returns an object.
And so we think about what's going
on here basically we're saying hey,
Vue will want you to create an app that's
gonna have a data property and the reason
we're using a function here is because
we want to actually basically maintain
the reactivity in terms of like tracking
the latest instance of that object.
Because if you were to do something
instead like just data like this,
the data becomes stale over time, and
there becomes like caching issues, and so
it is become kind of best practice across
frameworks that when you are managing
data, you actually have it be
a function that returns an object and
then the framework will take
care of it from there for you.
And so in this, let us go and
just add a message here.
And this time, I will just say hello.
It works..
Okay, so now here we have our
reactive data message and
the question is how are we going to
actually render that inside of our app?
Well, the way we're gonna do that is we're
going to be using the curly brace syntax.
So this is specific to well actually this
has been a fairly common syntax language.
But as far as the three
frameworks are concerned,
this one Vue uses the double curly brace,
and all we type is message.
That's all it is.
And when we refresh it,
you'll notice your data is now appearing
inside of your page as you would expect.